# BootboxJS documentation

Hello intrepid explorer! Thank you for checking out the `gh-pages`
documentation branch. Pull requests are just as welcome here as they are for
library itself, so thank you in advance for any contributions.

## Running locally

We use Jekyll to create the static website found at [bootboxjs.com](https://bootboxjs.com). If you
want to run the site locally (recommended if you're creating a pull-request), you'll need to 
meet a few prerequisites:

- Ruby runtime
- Python runtime
- `gcc` and `make` tools
- Familiarity with the terminal/console
- Familiarity with Ruby
- Familiarity with HTML, CSS, Sass, JavaScript, and Commonmark/Markdown syntax

## Getting Started

Unless otherwise noted, the commands shown below are executed using the terminal/console application for your operation system.

1. Make sure that Ruby version 3 or better is installed: 
```shell
ruby --version
```
2. Make sure that Python version 3 or better is available:
```shell
python --version
```
3. Make sure that gcc is available:
```shell
gcc -v
```
4. Make sure that make is available:
```shell
make -v
```

Once the prerequisites above are met, you'll need to install Bundler. In your terminal, execute the following command:

```shell
gem install bundler
```

This installs Bundler globally. Verify your installation by executing the following command:

```shell
bundler --version
```

At this point, you should have all of the required global tooling installed.

## Build

Open the repository. You should see a directory structure similar to this:

```
- /docs
- /docs-src
    - /_includes
    - /_layouts
    - /_plugins
    - /_sass
    - /css
    - /images
    - /js
    - /libs
    - /pages
    - 404.html
    - Gemfile
- _config.yml
- CNAME
- license.txt
- README.md
```

`/docs` is the output directory; that is, it's the directory to which Jekyll writes out the static pages which are generated by the project templates. You'll 
be working from within the `/docs-src` directory.

If you've just checked out or downloaded this repository, you'll need to tell Ruby to install the modules defined in the Gemfile:

```shell
bundle install
```

Wait for that to complete. Assuming no errors, you can then instruct Jekyll to build the site and to start up an embedded web server:

```shell
jekyll serve
```

You'll probably see some warnings, but eventually the site will finish compiling and you'll see something like this:

```
    Server address: http://127.0.0.1:4000
  Server running... press ctrl-c to stop.
```

Navigate to that URL in your web browser to see the generated site! When you're done, or to simply stop the site for whatever reason, click back into the Terminal window and 
press your `cntrl` and `c` keys on your keyboard. Enter `y` to stop the site. You can start the site back up at any time using the `jekyll serve` command. 

If you just want to verify that the site builds, using the `build` command instead:

```shell
jekyll build
```

## Adding Content

For purposes of the following content, "site root" refers to "docs-src".

### Styles, Assets, and Pages

Jekyll will copy any HTML or Markdown page found in the site root over to the `/docs` directory in the same relative location. For example, the 404.html page found 
at `/docs-src/404.html` will be copied to `/docs/404.html`.

Directories which begin with an underscore, `_`, are not copied - these are assumed to be "building blocks" by Jekyll. Directories which do **not** start with an underscore 
are copied to the same relative location. For example, `/docs-src/libs` will be copied to `/docs/libs`.

The following directories will contain static assets:

- /libs
- /js
- /images

`/libs` should used for any third-party libraries to be used in this project (i.e. Font Awesome and Bootstrap).

The `/css` directory is a special case. We define Sass files inside that directory, but the purpose of those files is to define the CSS files which Jekyll should create when 
transpiling each Sass file; you can think of these Sass files as "bundles". We tell Jekyll to process these bundles by adding front matter to each Sass file. For example, the main 
"site" stylesheet is defined like so:

```
---
---
@use "main"
```

This will result in a CSS file being output to `/css/site.css`. Everything beyond the front matter is just pure Sass syntax.

### Adding New Pages

`/pages` is where we define each page for this website. Jekyll will create a new HTML page for each HTML template or Markdown file found in `/pages`, using the 
front matter to determine the layout template to use and the location to which the file should be written. You can find more information by visiting the 
[Jekyll documentation](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/pages/).

That's pretty much it. Have fun!

### A Few Notes

If you're a Windows user and need to install gcc and/or make, we recommend first installing [Chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/). It's a package 
manager that simplifies installing a lot of development tools. You can find installation instructions at [https://chocolatey.org/install](https://chocolatey.org/install).

Once Chocolately is installed, install mingw and make:

```shell
choco install mingw
```

and

```shell
choco install make
```

Strictly speaking, neither _should_ be required to build a Jekyll site, but some of the Ruby modules used in the current version of Jekyll expect both to be available, so it's 
best to install these dependencies now, even if they're eventually no longer required.